.TH MEMLOAD 1 "2009-09-03" "sp-stress"
.SH NAME
memload \- consumes a specified amount of memory
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBmemload\fP [ \fI-e\fR ] [ \fI-l\fR ] amount of memory 
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIMemload\fP is a small tool that can be used to allocate memory so that
either a given amount of it (specified in megabytes) is allocated,
or optionally only the given amount of memory remains free.
.PP
In addition of just allocating the memory, memload does also
initialize it with memset to ensure that the memory is actually reserved. 
This is neccessary because of the default Linux overcommit memory
policy.
.PP
Before allocating the memory, memload process also attempts to protect 
itself from being OOM-killed by tweaking its own oom_adj setting. 
With a typical setup this will succeed only when run as root. 
If the adjustment fails, memload will still proceed,
but may end up being killed prematurely. After the memory has been
allocated and reserved, it will sleep until explicitly terminated.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-e
Exit after consuming/dirtying the allocated memory.  This is intended
for simulating memory usage spikes.
.TP
.B \-l
Instead of allocating the given amount of memory, leave the given
amount of memory free and allocate the rest.
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR cpuload (1),
.IR ioload (1)
.PP
Files \fBvm/overcommit-accounting\fP and \fBsysctl/vm.txt\fP in kernel
documentation directory for information about the overcommit policy /
VM.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2007,2009 Nokia Corporation.
.PP
This is free software.  You may redistribute copies of it under the
terms of the GNU General Public License v2 included with the software.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
